#### D8 Prof Sanchez 
# Final Review 
#### Sean Villegas

[Solutions](https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=https://github.com/data-8/exams/raw/master/fa22/data8-fa22-final-solutions.pdf)


<style>
    .tnr {
        font-family: "Times New Roman";
        font-size: 15px;
    }

</style>

#

\(T \lor F\)


## True or False Section

<div class='tnr'>

(a) (2 pt) In order to build a k Nearest Neighbors classifier that uses the whole training set, you need to know the class value of some, but not all of the training examples.

(b) (2 pt) A classifier is considered to be overfitting if it performs very well on both the training set and the test set.

(c) (2 pt) Bayes’ Rule can be used to model subjective beliefs about events that involve randomness.

(d) (2 pt) In linear regression, slope is measured in the same units as the numerical attribute on the y-axis.

(e) (2 pt) According to the Central Limit Theorem, if a sample is large, and drawn at random from the population with replacement, then the probability distribution of the sample median is roughly normal.

(f) (2 pt) If we use linear regression to predict y-values based on our x-values, where both x and y are measured in standard units, the intercept is guaranteed to be 0.

(g) (2 pt) For any distribution, the percent of data that lies within 2 SDs of the average is at least 75%.

(h) (2 pt) If you use k-nearest neighbors on a data set that has only 2 possible categories for class (e.g. 0 or 1) and use an odd value for k (e.g. 5, 9), there is guaranteed to be a unique class that has the majority among the k nearest neighbors in the training set.   

(i) If we use linear regression to predict y-values based on our x-values, the average of our residuals will depend on whether x and y are measured in standard units.

(j) (2 pt) If you are sampling a numerical attribute that can only take on values of 0 or 1, the SD of your sample cannot be larger than 0.5.

(k) (2 pt) The total variation distance can be applied to categorical distributions in which there are only 2 possible categories (e.g. purple or white).

(l) (2 pt) The reason we shuffle labels in an A/B test is to ensure that our subjects are randomly assigned to treatment and control.

(m) (2 pt) Suppose a hypothesis test is proposed and we already know that the null hypothesis is true. If 500 researchers each independently collect a sample of the same size to carry out an experiment and they all use 1% as their p-value cutoff, we should expect around 5 of them to reject the null.

(n) (2 pt) The chance of two events A and B both happening can sometimes be greater than the chance of either A or B (or both) happening.

(o) (2 pt) The distance between two individuals can be zero if calculated using only 2 numerical attributes, but greater than zero if calculated using 3 numerical attributes.

(p) (2 pt) Evaluating a machine learning algorithm on a test set that was not involved in the training phase is a way to estimate classification accuracy on the population.

</div>

#

## Functions


<div class='tnr'>

The Data8 community has been trying to spread the word about the course online by posting content on TikTok. To evaluate the performance of these posts, Nicole and Will put together a table called videos that contains a random sample of 331 Data 8 related TikTok videos posted in the last year. The first few rows are shown here:

<center>

| Caption | ID | Views | #Data8 | Date  
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | 
berkeley | UC6D1L2vxEAg | 1774659 | True | 08-24
lies or loophole | UComP_epzeKz | 96356 | False | 11-30
best part was the 2000+ person data 8 class | UC3IZKseVp | 12628 | True | 08-24
</center>

The table has the following columns:
- Caption: (string) the video’s caption (excluding hashtags)
- ID: (string) the posting account’s ID in TikTok’s database
- Views: (int) the number of unique users who viewed the video
- #Data8 : (bool) whether the video had ‘#Data8’ in the caption
- Date: (string) the month and day the video was published

#


(a) (3 pt) Which of these Python expressions returns the date of the most watched video?

</div>

Options: 

     videos.sort('Views').row(0).item(4)
     videos.sort('Views').column(4).item(0)
     videos.pivot('Date', 'ID', 'Views', max).column(0).item(0)
     videos.sort('Views', descending=True).column('Date').item(0)
     videos.select('Date', 'Views').group(0, max).sort(1, descending=True).column(0).item(0)

The only correction options are 

```python
videos.sort('Views', descending=True).column('Date').item(0)
videos.select('Date', 'Views').group(0, max).sort(1, descending=True).column(0).item(0)
```

**Moral:**
- Passing in an integer to the `.group()` method will work as if specifying the label name. 


#

<div class='tnr'>

(b) Which of these Python expressions visualizes the distribution of the average number of views for each Date in the table?
Select all that apply.
- videos.group('Date', np.average).hist('Views')
- videos.select(2, 4).group(0, np.average).hist(1)
- videos.column('Date', 'Views').group(0, np.average).hist(1)
- videos.select('Date', 'Views').group('Date', np.average).hist('Views average')
- Table().with_column('Avg Views', videos.select(4, 2).apply(np.average, 1)).hist(0)
- None of the above.

</div>

**Moral:**
- `videos.select('Date', 'Views').group('Date', np.average).hist('Views average')`  
    - because after grouping by np.average you get col average in title
- `.hist()` method also accepts an integer as column indexing

#

<center>

| Identifier | Account |
| --- | --- |
UC6D1L2vxEAg | withloverico
UComP_epzeKz | caltvofficial
UC3IZKseVp |  toomuchtrunko

</center>

```python
videos.join(‘ID’, accounts, ‘Identifier’)

# two options
combined.where(‘Account’, are.equal_to('caltvofficial'))
combined.where(‘Identifier’, 'caltvofficial')

# two options
caltv.sort('Views', descending=True).where('#Data8', True).column('Caption').item(0)
caltv.where('#Data8', True).sort('Views', descending=True).column('Caption').item(0)
```

**Moral:**
- `.where()` expects either a direct string value or a predicate function (like `are.equal_to()`, `are.containing()`, etc.).
- You can chain in different order of operations as long as the logic makes sense 


#

## Confidence Intervals
Dont select options when talking about confidence intervals that say EXACTLY. Roughly will be the best way to describe it

CI Definition 

Understand when we questions are reffering to making assumptions to the whole population or just a inference test    

#
<div class='tnr'>
(c) Suppose that Pam randomly samples 100 shipping times and uses bootstrapping to create a 95% confidence interval for the population median shipping time. For the following two questions, assume that the confidence interval she constructs is (94, 106) hours.
</div>

Options: 


i. (3.0 pt) Which of the following can be concluded from the confidence interval above?

     95% of shipping times in the population are between 94 and 106 hours.
     The median shipping time in Pam’s sample was exactly 100 hours.
     If Jim independently repeats Pam’s process 500 times, exactly 95% of the intervals he creates will
    contain the true population median.
     If Jim randomly samples 100 shipments without replacement, he can expect roughly 95% of the
    shipping times to be between 94 and 106 hours.
     None of the above.
ii. (2.0 pt) Pam suspects that the Dunder Mifflin ships paper slower than the median 2 days (48 hours) that Amazon Prime claims it takes to ship its paper orders.
Based on the above 95% confidence interval of (94, 106) hours, if her p-value cutoff is 5%, what should Pam conclude?


    The data are consistent with the hypothesis that Dunder Mifflin ships paper slower than Amazon
    Prime does.
    The data are consistent with the hypothesis that the distribution of the paper shipping times is
    the same for both Dunder Mifflin and Amazon Prime.
    The data are consistent with the hypothesis that Dunder Mifflin ships paper faster than Amazon
    Prime does.
    There is not enough information to make a conclusion of any kind.

<div class='tnr'>
(d) (2.0 pt) Suppose that Jim creates his own random sample of 100 shipping times. He observes a sample average of 96 hours for response time and she also knows that the population SD is 30 hours.

What is his 95% confidence interval for the true population mean of shipping time (in hours)?
</div>

Options:

    (87, 105)
    (90, 102)
    (93, 99)
    (94, 106)
    (95.4, 96.6)
    (95.1, 96.9)
    None of the above.


### Interpreting Residuals 